Add support for disabling the FIPS mode in OpenJDK (#6252)
strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator: documentation/modules/operators/proc-configuring-fips-mode-cluster-operator.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// assembly-using-the-cluster-operator.adoc

[id='proc-configuring-fips-mode-cluster-operator-{context}']
= Configuring the FIPS mode in Cluster Operator

[role="_abstract"]

> When running Strimzi on FIPS enabled Kubernetes cluster, the OpenJDK used in Strimzi container images will automatically switch to FIPS mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) are standards for computer security and interoperability.
When running Strimzi on a FIPS-enabled Kubernetes cluster, the OpenJDK used in Strimzi container images will automatically switch to FIPS mode.
```

Reviewer: Does the FIPs security level make a difference?

Author: What exactly do you mean with FIPS security level? AFAIK on the software level, it is currently just an ON/OFF flag. There are no levels.

> Strimzi currently doesn't support running as FIPS compliant with the FIPS mode enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This prevents Strimzi from running on the cluster.
```

> When you deploy Strimzi on such cluster, you will see errors similar to this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you deploy Strimzi to the cluster, you will see errors similar to the following:
```

[source%nowrap]
----
Exception in thread "main" io.fabric8.kubernetes.client.KubernetesClientException: An error has occurred.
	at io.fabric8.kubernetes.client.KubernetesClientException.launderThrowable(KubernetesClientException.java:103)
	at io.fabric8.kubernetes.client.KubernetesClientException.launderThrowable(KubernetesClientException.java:97)

> 	at io.fabric8.kubernetes.client.utils.HttpClientUtils.applyCommonConfiguration(HttpClientUtils.java:210)

Reviewer: do we need to show all these lines?

Author: I can try to comment out some of the lines. But the exact exception might change between releases. So I do not think we can leave just the first line. And I'm not sure if it matters that we replace half of the lines with comments. But I can try that

	at jdk.crypto.cryptoki/sun.security.pkcs11.P11KeyStore.engineSetCertificateEntry(P11KeyStore.java:515)
	at java.base/java.security.KeyStore.setCertificateEntry(KeyStore.java:1235)
	at io.fabric8.kubernetes.client.internal.CertUtils.createTrustStore(CertUtils.java:100)
	at io.fabric8.kubernetes.client.internal.CertUtils.createTrustStore(CertUtils.java:74)
	at io.fabric8.kubernetes.client.internal.SSLUtils.trustManagers(SSLUtils.java:140)
	at io.fabric8.kubernetes.client.internal.SSLUtils.trustManagers(SSLUtils.java:90)
	at io.fabric8.kubernetes.client.utils.HttpClientUtils.applyCommonConfiguration(HttpClientUtils.java:199)
	... 7 more
Caused by: sun.security.pkcs11.wrapper.PKCS11Exception: CKR_SESSION_READ_ONLY
	at jdk.crypto.cryptoki/sun.security.pkcs11.wrapper.PKCS11.C_CreateObject(Native Method)
	at jdk.crypto.cryptoki/sun.security.pkcs11.wrapper.PKCS11$FIPSPKCS11.C_CreateObject(PKCS11.java:1950)
	at jdk.crypto.cryptoki/sun.security.pkcs11.P11KeyStore.storeCert(P11KeyStore.java:1567)
	at jdk.crypto.cryptoki/sun.security.pkcs11.P11KeyStore.engineSetEntry(P11KeyStore.java:1045)
	... 14 more
----

> If you want to run Strimzi on your FIPS enabled cluster, you can disable the FIPS mode by setting the `FIPS_MODE` environment variable to `disabled`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to run Strimzi on your FIPS-enabled cluster, you can disable the OpenJDK FIPS mode by setting the `FIPS_MODE` environment variable to `disabled` in the deployment configuration for the Cluster Operator.
```

> In this mode, the FIPS mode in OpenJDK will be disabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> Such Strimzi deployment will not be FIPS compliant, but the Strimzi operators as well as all its operands will be able to run as on any regular Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Strimzi deployment won't be FIPS compliant, but the Strimzi operators as well as all its operands will be able to run on the FIPS-enabled Kubernetes cluster.
```

.Procedure

. To disable the FIPS mode in the Cluster Operator, update its `Deployment` configuration (`install/cluster-operator/060-Deployment-strimzi-cluster-operator.yaml`) and add the `FIPS_MODE` environment variable.
+
--

> .Example proxy configuration for the Cluster Operator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Example FIPS configuration for the Cluster Operator
```

[source,yaml,subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
spec:
  # ...
  template:
    spec:
      serviceAccountName: strimzi-cluster-operator
      containers:
        # ...
        env:
        # ...
        - name: "FIPS_MODE"
          value: "disabled" # <1>
  # ...
----

> <1> Disabled the FIPS mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Disables the FIPS mode.
```
